# MODEL6962035527: zhang_2000

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL6962035527.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL6962035527.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This the model describing the action potentials of the peripheral rabbit
sinoatrial node from the article:  
**Mathematical models of action potentials in the periphery and center of the rabbit sinoatrial node.**   
Mathematical models of action potentials in the periphery and center of the
rabbit sinoatrial node. _Am J Physiol Heart Circ Physiol._ 2000
Jul;279(1):H397-421. Pubmed ID:
[10899081](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10899081) , [full
text](http://ajpheart.physiology.org/cgi/content/full/279/1/H397) at AJP -
Heart and Circulatory Physiology.  
**Abstract:**   
Mathematical models of the action potential in the periphery and center of the
rabbit sinoatrial (SA) node have been developed on the basis of published
experimental data. Simulated action potentials are consistent with those
recorded experimentally: the model-generated peripheral action potential has a
more negative takeoff potential, faster upstroke, more positive peak value,
prominent phase 1 repolarization, greater amplitude, shorter duration, and
more negative maximum diastolic potential than the model-generated central
action potential. In addition, the model peripheral cell shows faster
pacemaking. The models behave qualitatively the same as tissue from the
periphery and center of the SA node in response to block of tetrodotoxin-
sensitive Na(+) current, L- and T-type Ca(2+) currents, 4-aminopyridine-
sensitive transient outward current, rapid and slow delayed rectifying K(+)
currents, and hyperpolarization-activated current. A one-dimensional model of
a string of SA node tissue, incorporating regional heterogeneity, coupled to a
string of atrial tissue has been constructed to simulate the behavior of the
intact SA node. In the one-dimensional model, the spontaneous action potential
initiated in the center propagates to the periphery at approximately 0.06 m/s
and then into the atrial muscle at 0.62 m/s.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Zhang, Holden, Kodama, Honjo, Lei, Varghese,
Boyett, 2000, version03** ](http://www.cellml.org/models/zhang_holden_kodama_h
onjo_lei_varghese_boyett_2000_version03)  
The original CellML model was created and curated by:  
**Garny, Alan**   
alan.garny(at)dpag.ox.ac.uk  
University of Oxford

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


